# AdventureGPT

## Introduction
A GPT powered adventure game engine. 

## Features
- Ability to generate characters on the fly, as well as allowing the user to add static characters into the game.
- Different world zones, with the ability to add more.
- Ability to add items to the game, and have them interact with the world.
- Generate profile photos for use in Discord implementations.

## How to use:
- Clone the repo using `git clone https://github.com/JACTERK/AdventureGPT`
- Install the requirements using `pip install -r requirements.txt`
- Change any settings you want in `settings.py`
- Create a file in the main directory called `.env`, and add the following lines:
```
DISCORD_TOKEN=<your discord token>
OPENAI_API_KEY=<your openai api key>
```
- Run the game using `python main.py` or by using one of the startup scripts.

## Features to add:
There are a few feature still to add to the project. Some of those are:

- [ ] Add a way to save the game, as well as load it from a file.
- [ ] Add a better way to interact with the game, such as a GUI.
- [ ] Add a way to add more items to the game, and manage your inventory better.
- [ ] Add a way to have NPC operate independently of the player, and do actions that fit the NPC's personality.

# Technical Details

## Game Startup Workflow

### Step 1: Creating a list of characters (`Character` Class)
The first step in the game startup procedure is to generate a list of characters that will be in the game. The list
is used to track the status of characters throughout the game.

By default, the `create_entities()` function is called when the game is first loaded. 
This function creates a list of characters that the player can interact with. 
This list is stored in the `entities` variable, and is a list of `Entity` objects.

In the `create_character(num, desc='')` function, it will first check if a `desc` was passed. If it was not provided, 
the function will generate `num` number of characters using generated details. If a `desc` was provided, the function
will generate `num` number of characters using the provided description. `num` is an integer, and `desc` is a list of details. (See appendix for details on the `desc` list)


The `Character` class is defined in `character.py`, and is a class that represents a character in the game. 
The `Character` class has the following attributes:

- `name`: The name of the character.
- `role`: The role of the character. This is used in part to determine the character's personality.
- `personality`: The personality of the character. This is used to determine how the character will act in the game.
- `health`: The health of the character. _(Not implemented yet)_
- `attack`: The attack of the character. _(Not implemented yet)_
- `defense`: The defense of the character. _(Not implemented yet)_
- `inventory`: The inventory of the character.
- `location`: The location of the character. This is used to determine where the character is in the game world.

There are two ways to create an `Character` object. The first way is to use the `Character` constructor with the 
above attributes. The second way is to use the `Character` constructor with no attributes, which creates a character 
based on the defaults set in `settings.py`, the rest of the attributes being automatically generated.  

### Step 2: Generating the game world (`World` Class)
The second step in the game startup procedure is to generate the game world. The `World` class is defined in `world.py`,
and has the following attributes:

- `characters`: A list of `Character` objects that are in the game. This is to be the same format as the output for 
the `create_character()` function.
- `desc`: A string description of the type of world the game is based in. 
- `locations`: A list of `Location` objects that are in the game. The `Location` class is defined in `location.py`, and 
has the following attributes:
  - `name`: The name of the location.
  - `desc`: A description of the location.
  - `characters`: A list of `Character` objects that are in the location. This is to be the same format as the output for 
  the `create_character()` function.
  - `items`: A list of `Item` objects that are in the location. This is to be the same format as the output for 
  the `create_item()` function.















# Appendix

## Functions

### generate(msg)
- msg (str): The message to generate a response to.
- Returns `response` (str): The response generated by the model.

### create_character(num, desc=[])
- `num` (int): The number of characters to create.
- `desc` (list): A list of details to use to create the character.
  - The structure of the list is: `[name, personality, role, health, attack, defense, inventory, location]`
      - Example: ```['John', 'John is a farmer who lives in Centretown. He loves nature, and frequently likes going on walks through nature. He is kind and responds to other characters in a kind and relaxed tone. ' 'Farmer', 100, 10, 10, [], 'Centretown']```
- Returns `c_list` (list): A list of `Character` objects.
